competitive exams after tenth
1.National Science Talent Search Examination (NSTSE)
Conducted by the Unified Council, the NSTSE exam assesses a student’s ability to solve mathematical questions and answer conceptual questions related to Science. Based on the CBSE syllabus, this exam is available for students right from 2nd standard till 12th class. The reason why it has become one of the popular exams after 10th is that it provides skill-based feedback to every applicant, be it those studying MPC subjects or those with BiPC subjects, very comprehensively and gives monetary rewards accordingly.
2.National Talent Search Examination (NTSE)
A prominent one in the long list of exams after 10th, the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) is a renowned scholarship exam conducted at national level by the National Council of Education Research and Training (NCERT). Specifically organised for 10th standard students, NTSE comprises of two stages, first as State/UT level and then second as National Level. It witnesses more than 50 lakh applications every out of which select 2,000 are given the scholarship.
3.Kishore Vigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY)
Designed as on-going National Program of Fellowship in the discipline of Basic Sciences, Kishore Vigyanik Protsahan Yojana is conducted and funded by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. This is amongst the most sought-after exams after 10th and aims to select aspirants wanting to study basic sciences courses and aiming to explore the research domain in Science.
4.Assessment of Scholastic Tests through Technological Testing (ASSET)
Amongst the lesser-known exams after 10th, ASSET is termed as a skill-based assessment test which aims to evaluate a student’s conceptual knowledge and analyses a school’s performance at global, national and regional level by providing effective insights and reports. It comprises of many multiple-choice questions that evaluate a student’s understanding of their school syllabus thus moving away from rote learning. It is generally designed as per CBSE, ICSE, IGCSE and prominent state boards’ curriculum and is organised for students of class III to X.
5.Indian National Mathematical Olympiad [INMO]
Conducted by the Mathematics Cell of the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education on the 3rd Sunday of January every year, INMO is an opportunity for those who want to pursue a career in Mathematics. It is the 3rd stage of the 6-stage mathematics exam and only those who clear the first 2 levels are eligible to appear for INMO. The reason why it has become one of the most opted exams after 10th is that the applicants become eligible to study BSc Mathematics at Chennai Mathematical Institute. Further, those who apply for Bachelor of Statistics/Maths at the Indian Statistical Institute are directly called for an interview without giving the entrance test.
6.International Maths Olympiad (IMO)
7.Science Olympiad Foundation [SOF] Exams
With the aim of nurturing budding talent in the fields of English, Science, Maths, etc, the foundation conducts 6 national level Olympiads for school students every year. Having affiliations with the ICAI and British Council, SOF Olympiad also offers scholarship programs like Scholarship of Excellence in English to meritorious students. From Accountancy and Logical Reasoning to concepts related to MPC subjects [Maths, Physics, and Chemistry], students are assessed on an array of topics depending on the olympiad they have applied for. Enlisted are the tests conducted by the foundation:

National Science Olympiad
National Cyber Olympiad
International General Knowledge Olympiad
International English Olympiad
International Commerce Olympiad
International Mathematics Olympiad
8.Indian National Olympiad (INO)/National Cyber Olympiad (NCO)
9.International English Olympiad (IEO)
10.Indian Army Soldier Recruitment/Indian Navy Metric Recruitment/IAF Airmen Recruitment